what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I'm
gonna be doing an in-depth dive into a
quantitative reasoning section of the UK
cat I've already done two videos like
this before one for abstract reasoning
and one for verbal reasoning and you
guys seem to like those and you've been
requesting the quantitative reasoning
video as well for a while so I'm gonna
do that today and hopefully you guys
find it useful before we get into the
video if you haven't already follow me
on instagram on my medic page karma
medic i'm gonna be posting there about
my daily life as a researcher and then
also about medical school in september
when i start second year as a clinical
medical student so that's pretty
exciting and follow me there to keep up
to date with my life in between these
videos quantitative reasoning a couple
of general tips for quantitative
reasoning first and foremost make sure
you know your equations in my other UK
cat video where i sort of talk about all
of the sections in one video in the
quantitative reasoning section i put up
a bunch of equations up on the screen
make sure you write those down make sure
you memorize them and you learn them off
by heart back to front i can't stress
how important it is that those equations
are just immediately there for you
they're at the top of your head and you
can quickly quickly go through them i
believe between sections you also have a
small period of time to kind of take a
break or relax feel free during that
time to write down all the equations
that you know so that they're
immediately there they're available for
you second of all and also of extreme
importance is to make sure that you are
familiar with using the on-screen
calculator there's nothing worse than
showing up to the day view you can count
exam never having used a keyboard and
mouse to plug in numbers into a
calculator make sure you practice using
the on-screen calculator from the very
beginning you want to know what
functions it has well functions it
doesn't have how many steps you can do
in a row without losing your numbers how
to save numbers to memory you really
want to make sure you have these things
down before you do your UK count exam
after that it's all about just reading
the question getting the relevant
information from the table or the graph
the passage the writing whatever and I'm
just doing everything as fast as you can
but maintaining accuracy also just a
side note from my experience I found the
quantitative reasoning section on the
official UK account significantly easier
than any of the practice tests that the
UK account publishes online and easier
than the 1250 I think it was ISC books
that I was using and the Kaplan two-day
online electronic course books that I
was using and so I found a significantly
easier I don't know if it'll be the same
for you I hope it is but just keep that
in mind so all right I'm gonna switch
over to my computer now I'm gonna push
myself up into one of the corners of the
screen and yeah we'll move on from there
so I'm gonna have a pen and paper with
me just so I can write down a couple of
things obviously use your pen and paper
and the exam that it's gonna be really
useful and let me bring up the on-screen
calculator know what I want to say so I
haven't done you get questions for a
quantitative reasoning in forever this
applies for all the videos that I'm
doing like this so if I'm slow if I'm
really stupid with my mouth don't
crucify me
gonna do my best first question we have
something about mountains in Kilimanjaro
okay cool so how I tackle these
questions is I don't spend time reading
through the graph or through the table
or whatever first I first read the
question and then go and try and find
the relevant information if you start by
reading the graph or the table I think
it might take way too much time and you
might get bogged down in all that
information so just focus on the
question first let's start the southern
hemisphere mountain with the median
height is okay before I even look at the
table only important things I care about
here our southern hemisphere and median
if you don't know what the median is
make sure you go learn it and memorize
what the meeting is mean median mode
make sure you know those terms off by
find you know exactly what they mean
median I know from reading the question
that I'm gonna have to order a certain
thing a certain number of things I'm
gonna have to put them in order and then
I'm gonna start crossing out on the left
and right until I get to the middle
value and that's gonna be my median so
before I even look at the question I
know that that's what I'm gonna have to
do southern hemisphere mountain with the
median height so I look my table
mountain height meters I personally like
working in meters so that's what I'm
gonna stick to for now southern
hemisphere mountain
so which of these are in the southern
hemisphere latitude longitude so here do
you say s SS n n n SS s whatever so I'm
gonna look all the esses okay and their
heights and I'm gonna write them down in
order on a piece of paper and then I'm
gonna start crossing out so the first s
Kilimanjaro I'm just gonna write a cane
don't waste your time running down
Kilimanjaro what a waste of time just
write down K and 15 so it's five
thousand nine hundred meters so I'm only
gonna write down fifty nine that's it
j/k 59 Kilimanjaro 59 when you're in the
exam pressure trust me you're not gonna
forget what K stands for it clearly
stands for Kilimanjaro 59 59 hundred
okay the next South one Vince on massive
Antarctica so I'm gonna write the m49
yeah it's gonna be 17 so those my
mountains now I need to rank these in
order from lowest to highest and then
start crossing them so I'm not gonna
move them around I can just rank them in
my head so I'm gonna cross Onkyo and a
then I'm gonna cross out okay and the
other two are both 49 so that means I
must have missed something otherwise
this would be so much easier to
determine
okay so this is very very cheeky meters
both VM and CP read 4900 but in feet CP
reads 16,000 this reads 16 1 so Vincent
massive is actually higher wow that was
very cheeky did not like that you kick
out I guess you really need to pay
attention but anyway the point is you
need to find the median and you know
southern hemisphere of mountains choose
the ones that are relevant and you write
them down in Nice code form you don't to
write out the full word such a waste of
time and start crossing out next
question the mountain whose height is
closest to the mean height of those
listed in the table
so this first requires me to come to
calculate the mean height of all of the
mountains in the table and then find the
one that's closest to that no I can
already tell from now this is gonna take
so much time calculating the mean height
using this on screen stupid calculator
is gonna take forever I'm gonna have to
write 59 plus 49 plus whatever so if you
know from the beginning that a question
is gonna take a lot of time you might
want to think about skipping that
question flagging it and coming back to
it later if you have enough time now
this question yes it's gonna take a lot
of time but it's also very simple it's
very easy and straightforward so I think
it might be worth doing but if you have
another question that has multiple steps
and you know it's gonna take forever to
just guess and move on it's not worth
spending that much time on one question
since this one's easy and I know that
technically I can get it right 100% of
the time I'm just gonna do it as quickly
as I can so equals this divided by the
total number 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 that
gives me 50 5.8 or something close to 56
which
yes Elbrus sound make sense so b4 Elbrus
that's my answer to this question next
question posting which direction would
an airplane have to fly from London UK -
each uncommon convoy using the shortest
route okay so where's London UK London
London London
I don't see london-uk anywhere in the
table so I'm gonna skip to this writing
on the London London I've no idea where
is London I'm gonna go with Europe and
where is here South America
70 West 33 South I'm just gonna quickly
draw a compass and see if I can figure
this out Europe yeah so England is on
the west of Europe so that's 46 more
something east somewhere here and I'm
from kaga is 33 South 70 west so 33
South 70 west somewhere here so this is
South West is that it towards the
southwest does that make sense I think
that kind of makes sense
I hope it's right I'll double-check and
if it's not I'll come back next question
the mountain which is on the line of
longitude furthest away from the
longitude zero is so longitude here
what's farthest away from longitude zero
I mean I would think 151 here 151
degrees is the longest farthest away
thing from zero so I'm gonna go with
McKinley which is deep so that was a
pretty simple question and pay attention
and notice that in this question I
didn't use any of this writing here
none of it I literally only use wait are
there more questions no okay so for this
question I only use the table I didn't
even use the writing so that's a good
like reason to not have to read all the
table and all the writing first okay you
might not even hopes low-battery because
you might not even end up using it so I
would definitely recommend going for the
questions first in the quantitative
reasoning section and seeing where you
go from there let me plug in my phone so
it doesn't die alright question 2
something about ticket prices out of
fare okay cool
so let's begin the ages of four members
of a family who went to the fair are six
thirteen fifty fifty-five ice-skating
giant wheels no what
venture spent 45 on different food was
the total amount spent oh my god let's
start with the six-year-old so price is
above 12 child 2 to 12 so the
six-year-old fits in to to 12 and she
went ice-skating giant wheel and snow
ice skating giant wheel ten snow forces
she's 14
they'll spend 45 at different food
stalls so that's later okay
13s so above 12 ice skating 8 7 that's
15 6 21:55
if you thrive your old fits into adult
as well that's another 21 so that's a
total of 21 21 42 plus 14 46 56 and then
they also spend 45 pounds on food so
that takes us to if it was 55 Plus 45
Bobby a hundred but it's a hundred and
one that is none of the answers so let's
see what I missed out six thirteen
fifteen oh I missed out the
fifteen-year-old as well so that's
another dog of 12 so that's an extra
twenty one so that take us to 122 which
is answer number P all right next
question
see that took quite some time I guess it
wasn't too bad
let's see that's my forgotten like what
constitutes as taking way too much time
and I should skip and what constitutes
is taking me a decent amount of time so
I would definitely gain experience by
doing questions and see what takes you
forever for example any questions
involving tags I sucked at so I would
always skip those anything involving
time zones as well so just see what you
are not so greater and skip those
questions flag them mark an answer and
come back okay next question a group of
people bought group tickets for the
giant wheel and thrill if they paid a
total of 433 how many people were in the
group for giant wheel and thrill so X
number of people times the giant wheel
price for a group of 20 which is six so
x times six plus the same X the same
number of people times
thrill which is 950 so nine point five
equals 434 so we have this pretty simple
algebraic equation let's solve it so six
x plus nine point five x equals four
thirty four nine point five plus six is
15 point 5 so X is four thirty four
divided by fifteen point five that's not
gonna give me a straight answer let's
see what we get twenty-eight Oh doesn't
give me same answer so the answer is
twenty-eight next on a Sunday 129 adults
and 216 children visit the fair among
the visitors two-thirds of adults and
three four children ice-skating if none
that purchased a group ticket was the
tomah earned for the sales firm for
ice-skating that day so two-thirds of
adults and there's 129 adults so first
let's find out what two-thirds of 129 is
two-thirds zero point six six six six
six six six six six six seven so just to
avoid wasting time I'm just gonna type
that in instead of doing two thirds
first so two-thirds of adults is equal
to 86 volts and three fourths of the
children so 216 times 3/4 3/4 is whoops
times 216 times three-fourths 216 times
0.75 you definitely need to know your
fractions 3/4 it's obviously 75% it 0.75
two-thirds it 0.666 667 you have to know
these fractions and decimals off by
heart just memorize them make a table
whatever you need to do that's 162 so I
know that 162 children at the price of 5
pounds when ice skating is 162 times 5
equals 810 and 86 adults
times the adult price for ice skating is
8 is 688 so 688 Plus 810 that I
calculated from before gives me an
answer of 1 4 9 8 which is answered e
simple so you can see that these
questions the actual math involved is
super super simple it's just averages
adding multiplying dividing
all the fractions and whatever the math
is really simple you just have to get
used to doing these questions fast in a
timed manner and keeping accuracy next
question
family of four adults and a few children
between two and 12 so 2 to 12 child when
on the giant wheel and snow adventure
they paid 133 how many children were in
the family this is gonna be another one
of those equations so I'm gonna get
paper for adults and a few children
let's do the adults first because we
actually know what they were when on the
giant wheel and snow adventure so for
adults for the giant wheel is 4 times 7
which is 28 plus for adults for the snow
adventure which is 4 times 6 which is 24
I'm gonna add those two now just to make
my life easier that comes to 42 so 42 is
the cost of adults paid now a few
children we don't know what they are so
let's call them X so 42 pounds from the
adults plus X number of children times
they went on the giant wheel in the snow
adventure so their giant wheel cost for
the child is 5 plus X number of children
also went on the snow adventure which is
4 equals 133 spend up with this equation
here 45 that add from 4 plus X times 5
plus X times that's very not to me sorry
times 4 is 133 so let's solve this
equation for T 2 + 5 X + 4 X is 9x
equals 133 9x equals 133 minus 42 which
in my head comes to
so X is 91 / 9 and how many children
10.1 now can't really have 10.1 children
and I can't have 10 children so that's
not in the answer no I've definitely
done something wrong if I just do a
quick check now 24 is 48
oh that's 52 that's 52 not 42 81 divided
by 9 is 9 so sorry about that mistakes
have been made
next question we have something about a
car sale okay cool
this is numbers and anti-wear so buy
five companies first half a baby okay
first question
if an take sells only sedans and hash
browns what percentage of total cars
sold by antek where students if ant egg
cells only sedan hash mark a or percent
of total cars pantech where sedan so
sedan number as a total of hatchback and
sedan
so the equation here is nine thousand
eight hundred thirty two divided by nine
thousand eight hundred thirty two plus
one thousand three hundred fifty eighty
seven point nine three boom so the
answer is eight now keep in mind for
this question when I was using the
calculator here's my equation alright
now the problem is with those stupid
calculators that they make you use is
that you can't type this all in one go
onto the calculator because a there's no
brackets so first you have to do this
calculation down here it gives you one
one one eight two and then you have to
do nine eight three two divided by one
one one eight to know you either write
down one one one eight two on your paper
or you keep it in your head and you do
this calculation and that can save you a
bit of time as well so if you practice
remembering a couple of numbers in your
head that might be able to save you time
too okay so next question what is the
difference between the average number of
sedan sold by ding ball and Diaz and the
average number of contracts or by ding
barn Kia's average numbers to dance
okay and average number of hash bikes
old biking volunteers what is the
difference between the average number of
sedans table shows the numbers that are
sold oh okay so this pressure is asking
to find the average of ding born gas
sedans and the average of hatchback and
years hatchbacks and minus one from the
other so Iraqis paper the average of
sedans sold by Dingaan gas is three to
four one eight plus five nine four six
two divided by two
you have to know what an average ah
goddamnit you have to know what an
average is in order to do this question
so make sure you guys know where your
equations and your terms your math
terminology what I feel like I did that
wrong
let's see four five nine four zero and
the average of hatchback sold by the two
companies is 3 5 3 plus 3 2 1 1 1
divided by 2 16 2 3 2 so if I divide the
original number that we found which was
4 5 9 4 0 - 1 6 - 3 - 2 9 7 OE which is
B which is great next question sealed
hatchbacks by both ding ball I'm jarred
in the second half of the year was
approximately 20 percent less than their
sale in the first half the year how many
more hatchbacks were sold by jarred and
ding bought during the second half of
the year I suck at these questions but
I'm gonna try and work through it so
okay so clearly I don't understand this
question too well and if this was me in
the exam situation I would most
definitely move on from this question
hey I've already sunk a lot of time into
it
B I don't know what the hell is going on
I don't know if I've been stupid or if I
missed a piece of information but I
don't know what's going on I've already
wasted a lot of time on this and I don't
have an answer so I'm just gonna guess
an answer I'm gonna flag this question
and I'm gonna move on I don't want to
waste any more time on this question and
yeah you really want to maximize the
number of points you can get from the
easier questions that you are
comfortable solving so I'm moving on the
next question the expected total sale of
sound Z sedans and aspects for the
second half of the year is this what is
the expected percentage increase in the
sales advance and experiment and
hatchbacks manufactured by Saul Z so in
the first half of the year Saul's he
sold one hundred ten thousand plus ten
thousand that's 120 thousand and then
they're expecting to sell 180 thousand
so what is the percent expected
percentage increase if only I remember
the equation for percentage increase
somewhere in my UK cat video go find it
I'm gonna google it but you guys should
find a know it off by heart percentage
increase equation really make sure you
know these equations off by heart it'll
save you so much time
so work out the difference between the
two which is 60,000 then divide the
increase by the original number which is
120 thousand if we do 60 over 120 that's
point five zero point five and multiply
that by hundreds
fifteen let's go back that is a 50%
increase
boom boom boom final question I'm gonna
do something about dangered species okay
cool so approximately what percentage of
the total number of critically
endangered species are mammals
critically endangered mammals that's
easy
so 109 divided by the total so 109 plus
45 plus one one eight plus 78 so that's
the total 350 so one oh nine divided by
three five zero is 31 point one four
percent so 31 percent D next lousy D
okay what would be their folks been
decreasing the percentage of each
category of species in the endangered
risk level to make the total number of
species in this level the same as the
total number of species in the
vulnerable okay interesting question so
vulnerable is total right now is 30 plus
20 plus 39 plus 46 135 the total and
endangered is 60 plus
98 plus 30 plus 36 which is 224 so what
be approximately percentage of its each
category in this species okay so we need
let's find out how much of a total
decrease we need and then we'll divide
that by four categories so 224 minus 135
is 89 89 over the original of 224 times
100 so will give us the percentage
decrease 224 times 100 is a thirty nine
point seven percent decrease so that
divided by four categories is this times
100 which is nine point nine ten percent
does not appear to be here I'm used to
day 39 says it 40 does that make sense
so I'm not sure I thought it was 40
divided by four to know how much each
one decrease would be although if we
need a total of forty percent decrease
then if each one decreases by 40 percent
that'll be the same thing I think so I'm
gonna go with 40 percent with this one
I'm gonna check the answer at the end
and if it's wrong but I'll come back to
you guys next question so do the effort
of bio conservation organizations if 20
percent of critically endangered moved
to vulnerable and 30% injured remove the
vulnerable will be the percentage
increase in the number of mammals in the
one
oh my goodness what a waste so first we
need to know what the total number of
vulnerable animals is which we
calculated last question which is 125
that's another great way to save time if
you remember a value or you have a value
from a previous question that you can
use again just use it again so 135 now
we want 20% of critical
okay so very valuable lesson has been
learned here I need to the question more
carefully so I immediately jump to the
idea that I was looking at totals
whereas if you read the question more
carefully it Said's mammals so let's do
this question again do that first 20% of
critically endangered mammals removed a
vulnerable risk level and 30% of
endangered mammals are moved to
vulnerable riscuta level will be the
percentage increase the number of
mammals and vulnerable risk level so the
original number of mammals invulnerable
is 20 and here we have 20% of the
critically endangered critically
endangered mammals is 109 20% of that is
21.8 and then we have a 30% of
endangered mammals so endangered mammals
98 we want 30% of that time 2.3 is 29.4
so I knew totals 29.4 plus 20 1.8 the
21.8 nice plus 20 which is 70 1.2 now
the percentage increase equation that we
used last time still good work so the
difference 70 1.2 minus the original 20
is this divided by the original which is
20 times 100 i can tell us 256 so be 256
percent the next question prime reason
for 45 percent of critically endangered
amphibians mammals and birds was loss of
habitat 55% of critically endangered
birds and 50% of critically endangered
mammals were in this level for this
reason how many species of amphibians
when the critically endangered level
because of loss of habitat okay let's do
this total first 45 percent of these
three things I'm Vivian's mammals and
birds critically endangered
so 45 plus 109 plus one one eight it's
this 45% of that so times 0.45 is 120
2.4 now 55% of critically endangered
birds which is 1 1 8 55% critically
endangered birds 1 many times 64 point 9
+ 50 % of critically endangered mammals
so 109 times 50% is 0.5 it's fifty four
point five this gives us a total here
fifty four point five plus sixty four
point nine is one one nine point four so
one to two point four minus one nine
nine point four that's three booms be
three done I think that's it I think
that's where I'm gonna stop quantitative
reasoning that's definitely enough
mental math and stress for me one
weekend I hope you guys found that
useful I was talking through my thinking
and my logic as I answered the questions
if you guys have any feedback on how
this was if you think I can do something
that would make it more useful for you
in the future
please do leave a comment down below and
let me know other than that thank you
guys so much for watching I hope you
learned something from this video like
this video if you enjoyed it subscribe
to my channel if you want to see more
videos from me have a great time
applying I have a great time revising
and if you have any questions of course
as always leave a comment down below
I'll see you guys in the next video
peace